---
layout: exam_info
num: e01
ready: true
desc: "Midterm Exam-I"
exam_date: 2019-02-04 14:00:00.00-8
---
## Instructions for the exam

* You may bring one 8.5" x 11" piece of paper with notes on both sides. This paper will be collected along with your exam, so make your own copy if you would like to keep it.
* No calculators or phones are allowed in the exam
* No other notes or books are allowed
* There are no makeups for this exam
* You must write your name on every single sheet of paper including your notes
* We will provide you with scratch paper
* We will provide you the table of operator precedence

## Collaborative notes

A fun way to prepare for the exam is to work with your classmates to create notes collaborative. I have created a document with the above list of topics. Jump right in and add content, code examples and other useful information. I will review and comment your notes as will the tutors and TAs! Students who contribute will get star points :)

[Click here to contribute to Collaborative Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11GtHNlKiYh81QXVWifwsUiu3ub5Ump5XiaJyTunFgnM/edit?usp=sharing)

[Review notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1geHT81CINv_vwXYlGj_EYl53KzZzMiDOr7v4-9CTjg4/edit?usp=sharing)

## Homework Solutions

[Solutions to hw 2-3](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1a8N5jMOx6_OTKwgYXjt4094fH6Cc0ReY?usp=sharing)

## Post exam information



## Reference material
You are expected to know the material from the following lectures, labs and homeworks:

* Lecture 1 to lecture 8, including all code implemented in class
* Homework 1 to 
* Labs 0 to 3
* pa01 

# Study guide
* Converting procedural code to OOP
* Basic design of classes - member variables and methods. Corrrect declaration of accessors and modifiers and the appropriate use of the const keyword
* Distinguishing between class vs.instance
* Understanding how to create instances of a class on the stack and heap
* Member functions, non-member functions and friend functions - why and how 
* Operator overloading - why and how
* The big 4- Constructor, de-constructor, copy-constructor, assignment operator (default behavior, overloaded implementation and identifying when each is invoked in any given code)
* Linked-lists - you may be asked to implement any function that involves a linked list
* The big 4 for linked-lists - why and how to overload the c'tor, de-stor, copy-c'tor and copy assignment


# Past exams

Link to the past exam is available on gauchospace.


