---
layout: exam_info
num: e02
ready: true
desc: "Midterm Exam-II"
exam_date: 2019-02-25 14:00:00.00-8
---
## Instructions for the exam

* You may bring one 8.5" x 11" piece of paper with notes on both sides. This paper will be collected along with your exam, so make your own copy if you would like to keep it.
* No calculators or phones are allowed in the exam
* No other notes or books are allowed
* There are no makeups for this exam
* You must write your name on every single sheet of paper including your notes
* We will provide you with scratch paper
* We will provide you the table of operator precedence

## Collaborative notes

A fun way to prepare for the exam is to work with your classmates to create notes collaborative. I have created a document with the above list of topics. Jump right in and add content, code examples and other useful information. I will review and comment your notes as will the tutors and TAs! Students who contribute will get star points :)

[Click here to contribute to Collaborative Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UnSnHWuHlf2hbMLK7JHUJG7OVKTXCrCEFy0H1KOQVQY/edit?usp=sharing)


## Post exam information



## Reference material
You are expected to know the material from the following lectures, labs and homeworks:

* Lecture 1 to lecture 11 , including all code implemented in class
* Homework 1 to 6
* Labs 0 to 5
* pa01 and pa02 

# Study guide
* Converting procedural code to OOP
* Basic design of classes - member variables and methods. Corrrect declaration of accessors and modifiers and the appropriate use of the const keyword
* Distinguishing between class vs.instance
* Understanding how to create instances of a class on the stack and heap
* Member functions, non-member functions and friend functions - why and how 
* Operator overloading - why and how
* The big 4- Constructor, destructor, copy-constructor, assignment operator (default behavior, overloaded implementation and identifying when each is invoked in any given code)
* Linked-lists - you may be asked to implement any function that involves a linked list
* Recursive implementations involving linked-lists
* The big 4 for linked-lists - why and how to overload the c'tor, de-stor, copy-c'tor and copy assignment
* Run time analysis -- Big-Oh 
* Deriving Big-Oh for code that involves loops
* Binary Search Trees - Implementing all operations and derivations of running times.
* Binary Search Trees - Implementing overloaded operators, and the big 4.
* Analyzing the run times of operations supported by linked lists, sorted arrays ans binary search trees- insert, search, delete, min, max


# Past exams


Midterm-1 questions are available at: [http://bit.ly/CS24-S18-Midterm-I-questions](http://bit.ly/CS24-S18-Midterm-I-questions)

Midterm-1 solutions are available at: [http://bit.ly/CS24-S18-Midterm-I-Solutions](http://bit.ly/CS24-S18-Midterm-I-questions)

Past exams have been posted on gauchospace.

# Review notes
[Link to the review notes](CS24_midterm1_review.md){:data-ajax="false"}
