---
num: pa03
ready: true
desc: "Card game using Binary Search Trees"
assigned: 2019-02-22 09:00:00.00-8
due: 2019-03-13 23:59:00.00-8
---

# Introduction

* Create a GitHub repo following the correct naming convention.
* If you have a partner, add you partner as a collaborator to the repo. Partner should accept the invitations to complete this process
* Minimal starter code is provided for this lab, but be sure to grab it from GitHub


# Goal of this assignment

* Practice using Binary Search Trees
* Learn to organize a project's code structure on your own (not just filling in a template)
* Learn to design classes using good OOP design principles discussed in class
* Learn to refactor an existing solution to  improve its design
* Learn to practice defensive coding strategies


# Instructions

The game you will be implementing is exactly the same as the one you did for pa02, the key differences are:
* you will implement and use a binary search tree instead of a linked list
* as a result, the ordering in which cards are picked will be different

# Required files

* cards.cpp, cards.h    // These files should contain your implementation of the binary search tree to store a list of cards
* ultility.cpp, ultility.h // These files should contain any other classes that you need to implement your game,
* tests.cpp // These files should contain test code for all the classes and methods you used in your game
* main.cpp // This file should read in the cards of the two players from input files and put everything together to play the game.
* Makefile // generate two executables- the first should be called game and behaves similarly to the one in pa02, the second should be called tests and must RUN (not just compile) all the test code to unit test your classes and methods 


## The game

Alice and Bob have realized the simplicity of their revealed-hand
version of Go Fish and figured out that they probably should play with
their hands concealed. However, they've already delt two hands of
cards and decide to play one last game with revealed hands and make it
as fast as possible. To aid this, they decide to play the game exactly
the same way as described in pa02 except they will go through their
cards in sorted order.

The game proceeds much as in the previous assignment, with Alice
taking her turn and then Bob taking his turn. However, now when asking
for cards, Alice proceeds FORWARD starting with "lowest" card and
proceeding to the "highest" card, while Bob proceeds BACKWARDS through
his cards in sorted order.

The ordering of cards is described in the next section.

## Card ordering

The ordering of cards is determined first by its suit and then by the value:  

1. The ordering least to greatest is: clubs, diamonds, spades,
   hearts. Thus a club of any value is less than a diamond of any value.

2. The ordering within each suit is determined by the value from least
   to greatest as follows: ace, 2, 3, . . . 10, jack, queen, king.

Based on the above two rules, the correct ordering of

h 9, c k, s 3, c a, h j, d 3

would be

c a, c k, d 3, s 3, h 9, h j

## Your approach

At the start of the program, you will read in Alice and Bob's starting
hands from two files. The names of these files are provided as command
line arguments with Alice's file in `argv[1]` and Bob's in
`argv[2]`. The starter code opens the files for you as `ifstream`
objects, which you can treat much like `cin`. You should read Alice
and Bob's cards into two binary search trees. Don't worry about
balancing the binary search trees (though you can try and optimize
this if you like). Your binary search tree class should obey the card
ordering rules given above. While implementing this, you may find it
helpful to overload the operators `==`, `<`, and `>` on your card
class so that you can easily choose which branches to go down on your
binary tree. Note that you need to correctly handle the case of cards
with the value 10 (which has two characters) and separately compare
the value and suit, so storing the cards as strings is probably not
the best approach.

Once you have the sets of cards, the game begins. Alice iterates
forward through her binary tree (in increasing order of the cards),
checking whether Bob has that card. You should check if Bob has each
card using the search function of the BST. Once a matching card is
found, you should print the line "Alice picked matching card <card
suit as a character> <card value as a number/character>". The card
should then be removed from both players hands by calling delete on
the binary search tree. Make sure to delete any dynamically allocated
memory when removing the cards from your trees!

The process then repeats, except this time, Bob looks through his
cards starting with the largest card and working towards the smallest
card. This means that while the first card Alice finds should be the
first shared card (in order), the first card Bob finds should be the
last shared card (in order). Once there are no matching cards, you
should print out the final hands of both players with the matching
cards removed.

As before, you should write your own Makefile for this lab so that
running `make` builds an executable called `game`.

## Before you begin

Based on pa02, we are adding an additional requirement that you write
a set of unit tests for your binary search tree. These should be in a
file called `tests.cpp`, which you will submit, and you should write
your Makefile so that running `make test` compiles and runs these
tests. Note that there will be no Gradescope tests for these unit
tests, so you can have the output in whatever format you find most
helpful. You should test each of the functions on your binary search
tree, which will include, at the very least, `find()`, `delete()`,
`insert()`, `successor()`, and `predecessor()`. You should write these
tests BEFORE implementing the full game to ensure that your binary
search tree works correctly. Debugging one set of code is much easier
than debugging two at the same time. This will also ensure that your
are correctly separating your binary tree class from the rest of your
program logic.

## Checkpoint

As with pa02, there will be a checkpoint for this lab worth 20 points
. You will submit some code to
Gradescope (the assignment pa03-checkpoint) for this
checkpoint. Gradescope will check that your code compiles. Before submitting the
checkpoint, you should have the following:

* Full skeleton code for your data structures--binary search tree, node, and any others you are
   using&mdash;THAT COMPILE (having stub functions is okay).
* A set of tests in tests.cpp that you will run once you finish your
  BST to confirm that it works. These should also compile and should
  test all the functions of your BST.

## Example

Contents of `alice_cards.txt`:
```
h 3
s 10
c a
c 3
s 5
h 10
d a
```

Contents of `bob_cards.txt`:
```
c 2
d a
h 10
c 3
d j
s 10
h a
```

Correct output after running `make && ./game alice_cards.txt bob_cards.txt`:
```
Alice picked matching card c 3
Bob picked matching card h 10
Alice picked matching card d a
Bob picked matching card s 10

Alice's cards:
c a
s 5
h 3

Bob's cards:
c 2
d j
h a
```

Note: a=ace, k=king, q=queen, j=jack

## Requirements

For this lab, you will have a lot of flexibility on your
implementation (which just means we won't be providing a code
framework for you to fill in). However, there are a few requirements
that your mentor will check for when they look at your code. Keep
these in mind as you think about your solution:

* You must use a binary search tree you implemented yourself to solve the problem, not another data
   structure or a class in the standard library.
* Your binary search tree must implement a constructor, a destructor and other other methods as needed
* You code should be readable
* Your classes should define clear interfaces and hide implementation details as much as possible. 
* Your program must properly free all memory it allocates, including your binary tree nodes and any
   dynamically allocated data stored inside them. We will also check this with valgrind when you turn
   in your code to Gradescope.
* You do not need to worry about having multiple instances of the same card. Each card will appear
   only once per hand.

# Submission instructions 

Submit your code on Gradescope. You must organize your program in the files: `main.cpp`, `cards.cpp`, `tests.cpp`, `cards.h`, `utility.cpp` and `utility.h`

In addition you must create a `Makefile` that compiles your program to an executable called `game`.
