---
num: "h01"
desc: "Chapter 1.1, 2.1-2.2"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-01-09 14:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2019-01-14 12:00:00.00-8:00
---
Reading: Read Chapter 1.1, 2.1-2.2.   If you don't have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve".


<ol markdown="1">

1. (5 pts) Name two benefits of procedural abstraction in writing code.
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>


2. (5 pts) Describe a technique for incorporating the principle of information hiding when describing a function's behaviour.
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>


3.	(10 pts) Write the pre and post conditions for a function that takes as input two parameters: distance (in meters) and time (in seconds), and computes speed as output.
	<div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>



4. (5 pts) Which access specifier should be used to hide member functions and variables from code outside of the class?
<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>


5. (5 pts) What is the difference between a class and an object?<div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>


6.  (10 pts) Modify the definition of the throttle class on page 35, to create a new throttle ADT, which allows the user of the ADT to specify the number of shift levels when creating objects of that class. You don't need to provide an implementation of the new throttle ADT, just the class definition.
  <div style="margin-bottom:20em"></div>


7.  (10 pts) Modify the definition of the throttle ADT on page 35, to create a new throttle ADT, which models a throttle as having a lever to control the flow of fuel (as before), and a light that indicates if the fuel flow is above or below a threshold. The light is green if the fuel flow is below 70%, and red otherwise. The new throttle ADT should have appropriate member functions to check on the status of the light. Implement the new throttle ADT
  <div style="margin-bottom:40em"></div>

8. (50 pts) Complete the CS 16 final exam available at <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1e81ApjY_One-ymaie5HKUcWFuqk7lqw1/view?usp=sharing">this link</a>. Turn in the completed <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fJ83MDrEj4NzZVZJjsK-yVOzemEdtK2o/view?usp=sharing">answer sheet</a> during your lab section.

  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

</ol>
