---
num: "h02"
desc: "Chapter 2.3-2.5"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-01-16 14:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2019-01-28 9:00:00.00-8:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Complete your reading of Chapter 2, section 2.3 - 2.5 (If you don't have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<ol markdown="1">
1. (10 pts) What is the purpose of namespaces in C++ programs?
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

2. (30 pts) Consider the point class defined and implemented on pages 64 and 65. Then, answer the following questions:
<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>
a. Name all the special class methods that are used to initialize an object of the class at the time that it is created.
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
b. What is the output of the following code? Assume the code is embedded in a correct C++ program.

<div markdown="1">

```
point p1, p2(20.0), p3(50,60);
cout<<p1.get_x()<<" "<<p1.get_y()<<endl;
cout<<p2.get_x()<<" "<<p2.get_y()<<endl;
cout<<p3.get_x()<<" "<<p3.get_y()<<endl;
p1 = p3;
p1.rotate90();
cout<<p1.get_x()<<" "<<p1.get_y()<<endl;
```
</div>

c. Is the copy constructor called in the above code? If so, where?

<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>

3. (10 pts) On page 72, why are the parameters of the distance() function of type const reference?  
<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>
<div class="pagebreak"></div>

4. (20 pts) For the point class on page 64 and 65, implement the overloaded parameter '*', so that the operator can be used to scale the x and y values of a point by a fixed number. Usage: point p2 = 2.0*p1; In this example p2's x and y coorinates should be double that of p1. Specify whether you would implement the operator as a member function, a non-member function or a friend function, and why?
<div style="margin-bottom:30em"></div>

5. (30 pts) For the point class on page 64 and 65, implement the overloaded parameter '+=', so that for two point objects p1 and p2, p1+=p2, produces the effect of adding p2's x and y member variables to the corresponding member variables of p1, and store the resulting values back into p1. Usage: p1+=p2;  Specify whether you would implement the operator as a member function, a non-member function or a friend function, and why?
<div style="margin-bottom:20em"></div>


</ol>
