---
num: "h07"
desc: "Chapter 10: Trees"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-02-20 14:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2019-02-25 9:00:00.00-8:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Read Chpater 10  (If you don't have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<ol markdown="1">

1. (10 pts) Draw a binary search tree with 6 nodes containing the integer keys 60, 30, 40, 50, 20, 10. You can arrange these in any order as long as the resultant tree satisfies the properties of a BST. Circle the root, and put asterisks on each leaf. Find two nodes that are siblings and connect them with a wigly line.
<div style="margin-bottom:12em"></div>

2. (10 pts) Look at the tree in Figure 10.5 on page 484. In what order are the letters printed for an in-order traversal? What about a post-order traversal?
<div style="margin-bottom:10em"></div>


<div class="pagebreak"></div>


3. (10 pts) Write a function with the prototype void stars(int i);. The function prints a line of i stars followed by a new line. Write code to apply the stars function to every node in a binary tree using an in-order traversal, where the number of stars is that given by the data of the node in the BST. You must write both the function definition and the code that uses it with the star function   
<div style="margin-bottom:40em"></div>


4. (2 pts) Why is it bad to insert nodes from smallest to largest in a binary search tree?
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

5. (5 pts) Build a binary search tree with the following words (inserted in the provided order): Kenya, Austria, Ireland, Norway, Laos, Germany, Moldova
<div style="margin-bottom:16em"></div>

6. (3 pts) Search for the following keys in the BST that you created in the previous question: Ireland, Germany, Moldova
and in each case indicate the nodes that you visited along the way. <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

</ol>
