---
num: pa01
ready: false
desc: "Statistician as a C++ Abstract Data Type (ADT)"
assigned: 2019-01-18 09:00:00.00-8
due: 2019-01-25 23:59:00.00-8
---

<div markdown="1">

Pa01 must be done individually&mdash;each student must accomplish it
alone and submit it. Later assignments may allow students to work in
pairs, but not this assignment.

## Create a git repo and obtain the starter code

* Create a git repo named `pa01_your_github_username` in our class organization, [{{site.class_org.name}}]({{site.class_org.url}}).

* Clone your repo on CSIL in your home directory.

* Get the starter code : If you have already cloned the `cs24-s18-starter-code`
change into it and type `git pull` to get the latest starter code.

* Change into your repo directory and obtain copy the starter code by
   typing the following command
   ```
   cp ~/cs24/cs24-w19-starter-code/pa01/* ./

   ```

## Assignment instructions

Files to submit: `stats.h`, `stats.cpp` and a `Makefile`

This assignment is based on Chapter 2, Programming Project 2 and 3
(here is a local copy of [page 90](Page-90.pdf). Follow the instructions on this web page, not the
ones on page 90 - but do see the hints provided by the textbook
author.

1. Type your name and the date in a comment at the top.(Like always, whether or not we remind you!)

2. Read and understand the two provided test files: `stattest.cpp`
   (which is an interactive test code) and `statexam.cpp`. Make sure you
   understand the expected behavior of statistician before you
   implement it.

3. Complete the incomplete definition of class statistician as
   provided in `stats.h` header file. In particular you must reason
   about the attributes of the statistician. Define the private member
   variables. Push your code to github and contact your mentor to get
   feedback on your class definition. It is important that you discuss
   your design choices with your mentor before implementing the
   class. This step carries 20% of your grade.

4. Write a `Makefile` to compile your code with both the test files. 

5. Implement the constructor, all the member functions, and all three
   non-member functions (including the two friends) as they are
   declared in `stats.h`. Read the documentation for each of these
   functions at the top of `stats.h`, and make sure your implementations
   work as advertised in those comments - i.e., satisfy all of the
   postconditions.

6. Push your code to github often. When you think it is ready for
   feedback from your mentor push it with the commit message "Ready
   for feedback".

7. Submit the files for Pa01 on gradescope: `stats.h`, `stats.cpp`,
   `Makefile`. Be sure to wait for the results of all tests. If you
   score 80/80, and you've followed all of the other rules, then
   you'll earn 80/80. The additional 20 points will be given by the
   mentor for good style and for showing off your initial design of
   the class.


## Some hints:

* Use assert to verify the pre-conditions of functions mean, minimum and maximum.

* Compile and test your program at CSIL (connecting remotely is okay).

* Use the interactive test program: `stattest.cpp` to do some initial
   testing. The point of this interactive test program is for you to
   test your functions individually, to make sure each one is working
   properly before running your implementation through more
   comprehensive tests like the ones that will be used when you
   submit. To learn details of those tests, see the non-interactive
   test program we will use: `statexam.cpp` (you can try it out before
   submitting if you want - give a test number, 1 to 5, as a command
   line argument if you run it). Do not proceed to the next step to
   submit your work until you are sure that all of your functions are
   working properly.



